Assessing and mitigating the risk
ATM crimes are often regional and conducted by organized and traveling groups. Engaging with local and national law enforcement, industry groups and ATM manufacturers to share information about incidents can assist banks in identifying patterns and evolving tactics, techniques and procedures targeting ATMs and ATM networks. Leading information sharing groups include:
ATM Crime Task Force**. This industry-led group is comprised of ATM and security subject matter experts from financial institutions and law enforcement agencies and was created to share tactical information about crime incidents impacting the industry. ABA Physical Security Open Committee**. Mitigating threats to ATMs and those who use ATMs is an ongoing process. Closer coordination with law enforcement, particularly in high-risk regions, and more proactive intelligence and sharing through groups such as the ATM Crime Task Force, SAPTA and ABA can improve understanding and risk mitigation. For example, data reported to the ATM Crime Task Force indicates that ATM burglaries decreased 57 percent in 2025 while vendor robberies decreased 53 percent. These declines are encouraging and reflect the impact of several industry-wide efforts, including:
* Improved physical hardening of ATM enclosures and anchoring systems.
* Increased use of remote monitoring and AI-based surveillance analytics to detect tampering or loitering.
* Enhanced technician protocols, including randomized service schedules and dual-control procedures, which have helped reduce successful ambushes. Bankers can benefit from the expertise and experience of banking peers within ABA, law enforcement and ATM providers to increase awareness of and enhance protection from existing and evolving trends. To access the recordings from ABA ATM Security Trends and Mitigations Strategies webinar series, please visit < For more information and resources, please contact Heather Wyson-Constantine, . Bowman: Banking agencies need to take regulatory review ‘seriously’
October 30, 2025
Banking agencies are required by Congress to review their regulations every 10 years but their past reviews have been “underwhelming,” resulting in no reduction in regulatory burden, Federal Reserve Vice Chair for Supervision Michelle Bowman said. Fraud Watch: Verifying Treasury checks before they’re cashed
October 30, 2025
With ABA’s every-increasing anti-fraud resources bankers can save their banks and their customers a lot of money. CFPB rescinds changes to adjudication process
October 29, 2025
The CFPB rescinded a series of changes made to its rules that, among other things, gave its director authority to resolve adjudication hearings overseen by the agency. NEWSBYTES
Appeals court upholds Fed decision to deny crypto firm master account
October 31, 2025
ABA DataBank: Candy prices outpace headline inflation
October 31, 2025
Survey: Small-business owners generally happy with their banks
October 31, 2025
SPONSORED CONTENT
Seeing More Check Fraud and Scams? These Educational Online Toolkits Can Help
November 1, 2025
5 FedNow® Service Developments You May Have Missed
October 31, 2025
Cash, Security, and Resilience in a Digital-First Economy
October 20, 2025
Rethinking Outsourcing: The Value of Tech-Enabled, Strategic Growth Partnerships
October 1, 2025
PODCASTS
Podcast: Why branches are top priority for PNC
October 23, 2025
Podcast: From tractors to drones, how farming tech affects ag lending
October 16, 2025
Podcast: Bigger data boosts financial inclusion at Synchrony
October 9, 2025
American Bankers Association
1333 New Hampshire Ave NW
Washington, DC 20036
1-800-BANKERS (800-226-5377)

About ABA
ABA Banking Journal
About ABA Banking Journal
Media Kit
Advertising

[](