[](
No Result

[](
No Result
[](

[](
No Result
Home Compliance and Risk
Fraud prevention: When the customer isn’t always right
October 3, 2025
Reading Time: 2 mins read

In the early 20th century, an era where “caveat emptor” — buyer beware — was the norm for customers’ interaction with most businesses, a group of department store moguls is credited with flipping the script. “The customer is always right” became the maxim, one that has solidified itself as best business practice over the last 120 years.
But what happens when the customer isn’t right? It’s a question most businesses commonly face, and banks aren’t immune to customers who insist on actions that go against their own personal or financial protection or attempt to circumvent controls that protect the bank. An upcoming session — appropriately titled “Is the customer always right?” — at ABA’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Conference will examine this tricky issue.
Shannon Bennett, SVP of Compliance Technology Product Management at Wintrust Financial Corp., is moderating a discussion with bankers from BankProv and Security National Bank. It’s not an easy issue for bank staff to navigate, Bennett said, noting that the conference session will provide insight into how an institution can maintain great customer service, while ensuring that employees are trained and empowered to do the right thing to protect both the institution and customer.
“There are several examples that can come into play when a customer is not right,” she said. “Those situations may include a customer trying to convince staff to circumvent policies that are there to protect the institution. Other instances that require the institution to say no to the request of the customer are there to protect the customer from fraud and abuse.”
Communication in these situations is most important — whether it’s face to face or electronically, and banks can provide regular training for such situations.
“Providing both scenario-based and ‘soft-skill’ training are important,” Bennett said. “First, scenario-based training allows employees to understand the different situations that they may encounter to trust their instinct or gut when something is telling them that what is being requested doesn’t seem right. Soft skill training provides an understanding of knowing what questions to ask and how to ask them.”
Bennett said that teaching employees to have the confidence and authority to ask the probing questions when their instinct is telling them something is wrong can be tough.
“It’s an easier and faster route to get rid of the demanding or bullying customer to just concede to the customer’s request,” she said. “Reinforcing that the easy route is not the path that should ever be taken and the right thing to do is what is expected when the situation falls into a red-flag scenario.”
It is critical to create a culture that ensures that employees feel empowered and supported by bank leaders in instances where the customer isn’t right.
“Having employees know they are empowered and supported allows them to trust their judgement to make the right decision when having to say no to a customer,” she said.
[](
[](
Author
Christopher Delporte
Christopher Delporte is a senior editor for the ABA Banking Journal and vice president of editorial strategy for member communications at the American Bankers Association.
Sen. Tillis proposes legislation to address debanking
October 30, 2025
Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) released a discussion draft of proposed legislation to address alleged debanking by banks and banking regulators by creating a national standard for account access and establishing new watchdog mechanisms for banking agencies.
Report: Fed to trim bank supervision staff by 30%
October 30, 2025
The Federal Reserve will reduce its bank supervision staff by 30% by the end of next year, the Wall Street Journal reported.
Bowman: Banking agencies need to take regulatory review ‘seriously’
October 30, 2025
Banking agencies are required by Congress to review their regulations every 10 years but their past reviews have been “underwhelming,” resulting in no reduction in regulatory burden, Federal Reserve Vice Chair for Supervision Michelle Bowman said.
Fraud Watch: Verifying Treasury checks before they’re cashed
October 30, 2025
With ABA’s every-increasing anti-fraud resources bankers can save their banks and their customers a lot of money.
CFPB rescinds changes to adjudication process
October 29, 2025
The CFPB rescinded a series of changes made to its rules that, among other things, gave its director authority to resolve adjudication hearings overseen by the agency.
CFPB rescinds nonbank registry rule
October 29, 2025
The CFPB has nixed a registry to track information on consumer protection violations by nonbanks, citing concerns about compliance costs.
NEWSBYTES
Appeals court upholds Fed decision to deny crypto firm master account
October 31, 2025
ABA DataBank: Candy prices outpace headline inflation
October 31, 2025
Survey: Small-business owners generally happy with their banks
October 31, 2025
SPONSORED CONTENT
Seeing More Check Fraud and Scams? These Educational Online Toolkits Can Help
November 1, 2025
5 FedNow® Service Developments You May Have Missed
October 31, 2025
Cash, Security, and Resilience in a Digital-First Economy
October 20, 2025
Rethinking Outsourcing: The Value of Tech-Enabled, Strategic Growth Partnerships
October 1, 2025
PODCASTS
Podcast: Why branches are top priority for PNC
October 23, 2025
Podcast: From tractors to drones, how farming tech affects ag lending
October 16, 2025
Podcast: Bigger data boosts financial inclusion at Synchrony
October 9, 2025
American Bankers Association
1333 New Hampshire Ave NW
Washington, DC 20036
1-800-BANKERS (800-226-5377)

About ABA
ABA Banking Journal
About ABA Banking Journal
Media Kit
Advertising

[](